--- CREATION OF THE MICROSITE ---

For this microsite, I had the role of project designer / developer. 
In order to create a great site, I knew I needed to get a great grasp 
of the idea my creative director, Charlotte Newhouse, had in mind. This 
meant first reading through and analyzing her creative brief and content 
outline, and then asking lots of questions during our initial meeting. 
I wanted to understand the tone she wanted to convey, the purpose of the 
site, how she wanted the visuals to look, etc; just her overall vision.

Once I understood the direction Charlotte wanted to go in, I now needed to 
understand the content I had to work with, as I was not familiar with the topic
of march butterflies whatsoever. For this, I refered to the wikipedia
page she provided me with as well her content outline. There was a lot of 
information there, so my initial goal was just to organize the content into 
general categories, and remove irrelevant sections.

These two steps combined helped me come up with how I needed to present 
the information I'd gather about monarch butterflies to fit Charlotte's 
creative vision.

--- tools, tactics, process ----

The first step I took in the creative process was to design what the site
would look and feel like. For this step I utilized figma, and created the
mockup of the home page, as you see here. I researched a lot of other 
conservation websites to help me get started, and keep some C.R.A.P. 
principles in mind. I also outline my color pallete, size guide, and site
directory.

The next step was to develop an actual working prototype, and for this I used
VS code. I used the tracing technique that we used in a previous assignment;
I downloaded a full-scale image of my mockup and coded my prototype to look
as close to that as possible, instead of just doing a plain content dump as 
we were instructed to do.

After that, I discussed my progress with Charlotte. She loved the color scheme
and general layout. Also, she told me to make some of the text larger, and helped
give me direction on what animations to design. Furthermore, I had not yet designed
how I wanted the internal pages to look, but we agreed that it would be best to keep
it simple.

Lastly, it was time to deploy the final version of the microsite. I had to gather and
curate a lot of content for this to fill out the internal pages. Also, I had to incorporate
java script files to get the animations and transitions working smoothly across all pages.

--- OUTCOMES & AI ---

Overall I'm pretty satisfied with how the microsite turned out. I did a lot of research and
spent a lot of time designing the home page, and I think the layout perfectly reflected the
desired tone and goal of the project. I'm glad I starting developing the home page in code
from the jump as well; it made the project more effecient and more cohesive when it came to
building out the other pages. Speaking of which, I think the internal pages could have been
better designed. I don't like how much of plain F-style look they had. Also, I think the 
content in general could have been grouped and possibly worded better. However, with the 
time constraints of the project and the limited guidance / knowledge we had, I think 
it was ok.

I relied on AI a lot for this project. The primarly language models I used were Microsoft
Copilot and Claude. Most of the code I did physically write myself. But I did use AI for a
lot of debugging, learning new concepts, and refamiliarizing myself with old concepts. I also
used AI to generate some of the images that I included in my microsite. Lastly, I used the AI
tools to help me change the wording of some of my content to better fit with the tone of the
project or just to truncate the text in general.